First Vision 
“I was filled with the spirit of God and the Lord opened the heavens upon me and I saw the Lord and he spoke unto me saying Joseph my son thy sins are forgiven thee.” - Joseph Smith
"If any man lack wisdom let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not" - James 1:5
“I kneeled again my mouth was opened and my tongue liberated, and I called on the Lord in mighty prayer, a pillar of fire appeared above my head, it presently rested down upon me , and filled me with joy unspeakable, a personage appeared in the midst, of this pillar of flame.” – Joseph Smith 
“Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man that this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did.” – Joseph Smith 
“I have actually seen a vision, ‘and who am I that I can withstand God’Or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen, for I had seen a vision, I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it” - Joseph Smith 
“In his First Vision, Joseph Smith saw two distinct personages, two beings, thus clarifying that the then-prevailing beliefs concerning God and the Godhead were not true. In contrast to the belief that God is an incomprehensible and unknowable mystery is the truth that the nature of God and our relationship to Him is knowable and is the key to everything else in our doctrine.” – Dallin H. Oaks
“The First Vision that followed was truly momentous and magnificent. But the path to that in-person visitation of the Father and the Son began with a prompting from the Holy Ghost to pray. The revealed truths of the restored gospel came through the pattern of seeking in prayer and then receiving and following the promptings of the Holy Ghost” - Robert D. Hales
“Following Joseph Smith's First Vision, the Restoration of Christ's Church commenced " line upon line, precept upon precept." – Tad R. Callister 
“Joseph, when he was 14 years of age, had an experience in that glorious First Vision that was different from any other recorded experience of any man. At no other time of which we have any record have God our Eternal Father and His Beloved Son, the risen Lord, appeared on earth together” – Gordon B. Hinckley 
“From the First Vision and the Prophet Joseph Smith, we received knowledge of the reality and sacred mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the cornerstone of our religion.” - Adilson de Paula Parrilla

Book of Mormon 
“The crowning event recorded in the Book of Mormon is the personal ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ among the Nephites soon after His resurrection. It puts forth the doctrines of the gospel, outlines the plan of salvation, and tells men what they must do to gain peace in this life and eternal salvation in the life to come.” – Book of Mormon Introduction
“The Book of Mormon is the instrument that God designed to ‘sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out His elect’(Moses 7:62.) This sacred volume of scripture needs to become more central in our preaching, our teaching, and our missionary work. – Ezra Taft Benson
“I implore each of us to prayerfully study and ponder the Book of Mormon each day. As we do so, we will be in a position to hear the voice of the Spirit, to resist temptation, to overcome doubt and fear, and to receive heaven’s help in our lives.” – Thomas S. Monson
“Something powerful happens when a child of God seeks to know more about Him and His Beloved Son. Nowhere are those truths taught more clearly and powerfully than in the Book of Mormon.” – Russell M. Nelson
“The Book of Mormon is the most correct of any book on this Earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, then any other book.” – Joseph Smith
“There was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang… the fullness of the everlasting gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants.” - Joseph Smith History 1:34
“This discovery greatly enlarged my heart, and filled my soul with joy and gladness. I esteemed the book or the information contained in it, more than all the riches of the world.” – Parley P. Pratt
“No man can say that this book (laying his hand on the Bible) is true… and at the same time say, that the Book of Mormon is untrue… There is not that person on the face of the earth who has had the privilege of learning the Gospel of Jesus Christ from these two books, that can say that one is true, and the other is false. No Latter-day Saint, no man or woman, can say the Book of Mormon is true, and at the same time say that the Bible is untrue. If one be true, both are.” – Brigham Young
“And if ye shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they are the words of Christ… and they teach all men that they should do good.” – 2 Nephi 33:10
“Joseph Smith’s first translation project was the Book of Mormon. It was written in a language he clearly did not know. He never claimed to understand the language it was written in. Instead, he said he was given the ability to translate by the gift and power of God.” – Kerry Muhlestein

Restoration of the Priesthood
“The Priesthood is an everlasting principle, and existed with God from eternity, and will to eternity, without beginning of days or end of years. The keys have to be brought from heaven whenever the Gospel is sent. When they are revealed from heaven, it is by Adam’s authority.” – Joseph Smith
“There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time.” – Joseph Smith
“The power, glory and blessings of the Priesthood could not continue with those who received ordination only as their righteousness continued.” – Joseph Smith
“Jesus Christ is the great High Priest of God; Christ is therefore the source of all true priesthood authority and power on this earth.” - Richard G. Ellsworth
“Beginning with Adam, the gospel of Jesus Christ was preached, and the essential ordinances of salvation, such as baptism, were administered through a family-based priesthood order.” – D. Todd Christofferson
“Now Jesus Christ had restored His church and authorized Joseph with the same priesthood that apostles had held anciently when they carried the gospel to the world.” - Saints Chapter 8
“The Melchizedek Priesthood, the consummate authority given to man from God, was restored under the hands of Peter, James, and John. By them, the Lord said, ‘I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them’” – Boyd K. Packer
“He explained that the Aaronic Priesthood authorized them to perform baptisms, and he commanded them to baptize each other after he departed. He also said they would receive additional priesthood power later, which would give them authority to confer the gift of the Holy Ghost on each other and on those they baptized.” - Saints Chapter 7
“We can all enjoy the full blessings of priesthood power through keeping the covenants we have made at baptism and in the temple.” – Bonnie L. Oscarson
“Priesthood is the means whereby the lord acts through men to save souls. One of the Defining Features of the church of Jesus Christ, both anciently and today, is his authority. There can be no true church without divine authority.” - David A. Bednar

Doctrine and Covenants
“In 1835 the revelations intended for the Book of Commandments, as well as many other revelations, were published in Kirtland as the Doctrine and Covenants.” – Teachings of Joseph Smith
“This book stands as a witness that God speaks today through His living prophet, the President of the Church, for the blessing and guidance of His Church.” – Teachings of Joseph Smith
“Joseph spoke the words slowly, and Sidney Rigdon wrote them down, but they originated in the mind of Jesus Christ in response to specific circumstances, thus making the Doctrine and Covenants ‘the only book in the world that has a preface written by the Lord Himself.’” – Steven C. Harper
“The Doctrine and Covenants is unique because it is not a translation of an ancient document, but is of modern origin and was given of God through His chosen prophets for the restoration of His holy work and the establishment of the kingdom of God on the earth in these days.” – D&C Introduction
“We, therefore, feel willing to bear testimony to all the world of mankind, to every creature upon the face of the earth, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men and are verily true.” – D&C Introduction
“The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants testify of each other. You cannot believe one and not the other.” – Ezra Taft Benson
“Search these commandments,” said the Lord of the Doctrine and Covenants, ‘for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.’” - Ezra Taft Benson
“The Book of Mormon is the keystone of our religion, and the Doctrine and Covenants is the capstone, with continuing latter-day revelation.” - Ezra Taft Benson
“Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.” – D&C 1:37
“Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day.  - D&C 4:2

Additional Scripture
“The Lord instructed [Joseph Smith] to begin making a new translation of the Bible. At the time he began it, he was a twenty-four-year-old living in the wilderness of North America, with no academic training and no worldly background or skills, taking on the task of making changes in the Holy Bible.” – Kent P. Jackson
“Instead, the Prophet was recasting the text into a new form by means of inspiration from the Holy Spirit.” – Kent P. Jackson
“We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly” - Articles of Faith 1:8
“For behold, this is my work and my glory - to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.” - Moses 1:3
“I know that the Book of Abraham is the word of God, but at the same time I do not know how exactly how it originated. Both truth and uncertainty exist side by side in this case, and likely in many other cases, if the path of faith is chosen.” – Brian M Hauglid
“By the power of God Joseph Smith translated a text that was written on the papyri… As he opened his mind to God because of his curiosity about the text on the papyrus, he received revelation about an ancient text written by Abraham and translated it by the power of God.” – Kerry Muhlestein
“Abraham was a seeker of ‘great knowledge’ and a ‘follower of righteousness’ who chose the right path in spite of great hardship.” – Translation and Historicity of the Book of Abraham
“In the summer of 1835, an entrepreneur named Michael Chandler arrived at Church headquarters in Kirtland, Ohio, with four mummies and multiple scrolls of papyrus.” – Translation and Historicity of the Book of Abraham
“The Pearl of Great Price… is by far the smallest of the four books of scripture, it contains some of the most profound doctrinal statements we have.” - H. Donl Peterson
“The real protection for us… is in having the powerful spiritual knowledge that comes from proper seeking and learning and from past spiritual experiences.” – Paul V. Johnson

The Gathering of Zion
“'This is the land of promise’ He declared, ‘and the place for the city of Zion.’” – Saints pg. 130
“He directed them to build a temple in Kirtland and prepare to receive His glory. ‘Organize yourselves,’ the Lord said. ‘Prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God.’” – Saints pg. 165
“Revelation to Joseph Smith had declared Jackson County to be ‘the place for the City of Zion.’” – Grua David W.
“Joseph concluded with a prayer that God would remember His promises regarding Zion and deliver the Saints.” - Grua David W. 
“We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion(the new Jerusalem) will be built upon the American continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.” – Articles of Faith 10
“Parley P. Pratt and Ziba Peterson were also called to go ‘into the wilderness among the Lamanites… that the Lamanites might come to the knowledge of their Fathers & that they may know the Promises of the Lord that they may believe the Gospel & rely upon the merits of Jesus Christ.’” – Richard Rust
“This gathering of modern-day Israel to Zion would deliver the righteous from Babylon and be a symbol for the world.” - Wilford Woodruff Banner of the Gospel 
“Zion has been established many times among men. From the day of Adam to the present moment—whenever the Lord has had a people of his own; whenever there have been those who have hearkened to his voice and kept his commandments; whenever his saints have served him with full purpose of heart—there has been Zion.” – Bruce R. McConkie
“My dear extraordinary youth, you were sent to earth at this precise time, the most crucial time in the history of the world, to help gather Israel. There is nothing happening on this earth right now that is more important than that. There is nothing of greater consequence. Absolutely nothing. This gathering should mean everything to you. This is the mission for which you were sent to earth.” – Russel M. Nelson
“We ought to have the building up of Zion as our greatest object. When wars come we shall have to flee to Zion. The cry is to make haste.” - Joseph Smith

Word of Wisdom and Temples
“I believe that we are coming nearer to the point where we shall be able to observe that great and glorious law of temperance which the Lord Almighty has given unto us.” – President Joseph F. Smith
“When Joseph took the matter to the Lord, he received a revelation—a ‘word of wisdom for the benefit of the Saints in these last days.’” – Saints pg. 167
“Instead of arguing from a position of fear, the Word of Wisdom argues from a position of confidence and trust. The revelation invites hearers to trust in a God who has the power to deliver great rewards, spiritual and physical, in return for obedience to divine command.” – Jed Woodworth
“And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones”  - D&C 89:18
“If I were called today to serve as a stake president, my primary focus would be on worthiness to receive and honor temple covenants. I would strive to make temple preparation the center of all that we did. I would do a better job of shepherding the Saints to the house of the Lord.” – David A. Bednar
“The divine purpose of gathering the people of God is to build temples so His children can receive the highest ordinances and thereby gain eternal life” – Joseph Smith
“What was it that gave those early Saints such strength? It was the fire of the temple covenant that burned in their hearts. It was their commitment to worship and honorably hold a name and standing in the house of the Lord.” – David A. Bednar
“The temple is a place of instruction where profound truths pertaining to the Kingdom of God are unfolded. It is a place of peace where minds can be centered upon things of the spirit and the worries of the world can be laid aside. In the temple we take covenants to obey the laws of God, and promises are made to us, conditioned always on our faithfulness, which extend into eternity” – The Priesthood and You
“Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God” – D&C 88:119
“The temple is a place of beauty, it is a place of revelation, it is a place of peace. It is the house of the Lord. It is holy unto the Lord. It should be holy unto us.” – Howard W Hunter

Kirtland and Mormon War
“Kirtland had ceased to be a place of peace and spiritual strength.” – Saints pg. 289
“How do you remain ‘steadfast and immovable’ during a trial of faith? You immerse yourself in the very things that helped build your core of faith: you exercise faith in Christ, you pray, you ponder the scriptures, you repent, you keep the commandments, and you serve others.” – Neil L. Anderson
“Like the intense fire that transforms iron into steel, as we remain faithful during the fiery trial of our faith, we are spiritually refined and strengthened.” – Neil L. Anderson
With faith come trials of faith, bringing increased faith. The Lord’s comforting assurance to the Prophet Joseph Smith is the very same promise He makes to you in your trial of faith: ‘Hold on … fear not …for God shall be with you forever and ever.’” – Neil L. Anderson
“'Zion shall yet live, though she seemeth to be dead,’ he assured them. ‘The very God of peace shall be with you and make a way for your escape from the adversary of your souls.’” – Joseph Smith
“Since receiving his divine call, Joseph had pressed forward in the face of opposition, striving to obey the Lord and gather the Saints.” – Saints pg. 385
“If the very jaws of hell shall gape open her mouth wide after thee know thou my son that all these things shall give thee experience and shall be for thy good. The son of man hath descended below them all art thou greater than he?” – Joseph Smith
“One of the things that I have been impressed with as we have worked on The Joseph Smith Papers is how resilient Joseph Smith was. He believed in his calling. He believed in the revelations.”  - Ronald K. Esplin
“If we are in a situation where much is demanded, ultimately we will have to decide where our loyalties are.” – Ronald K. Esplin
“Marsh was called to serve as a missionary and was told that his sins were forgiven. He was counseled to be patient, to revile not, to pray always, and to give heed to the Comforter.” – Kay Danowski

Nauvoo and the Relief Society
"Nauvoo" - a Hebrew word meaning "beautiful place" or "city beautiful
“It is clear that the purposes of Relief Society are to increase faith and personal righteousness, strengthen families and homes, and seek out and help those in need.” – Julie B beck
“The Relief Society “is divinely made, divinely authorized, divinely instituted, divinely ordained of God.” – President Joseph F Smith
“Relief Society offers ‘relief of poverty, relief of illness; relief of doubt, relief of ignorance—relief of all that hinders the joy and progress of woman. What a magnificent commission!’”  - Elder John A. Widtsoe
“The Relief Society was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith as a fundamental part of the gospel” – Joseph Fielding Smith
“It is no minor thing that the motto of the Relief Society is ‘Charity Never Faileth’ for ‘charity is the pure love of Christ, which endureth forever.’” - President Elaine L Jack
“I will organize the women under the priesthood, after the pattern of the priesthood,” – Joseph Smith
“The new ordinance God revealed to Joseph taught exalting truths.” – On The Endowment Saints pg. 453
“As man now is, God once was: As God now is, man may be.” – Lorenzo Snow
“Our theology begins with heavenly parents. Our highest aspiration is to be like them.” – Dallin H. Oaks

Marriage and Sealings
“When a man and woman who have been sealed together in a temple are united spiritually, mentally, emotionally, and physically, taking full responsibility for nurturing each other, they are truly married” – Reed H. Bradford
“If a husband and wife are faithful to their temple marriage, they will continue as co-creators in God’s celestial kingdom through the eternities” – Reed H. Bradford
“The spirit of a righteous home is love” – Reed H. Bradford
“There is nothing in this world as important as the creation and perfection of family units of the kind contemplated in the gospel of Jesus Christ” – Bruce R. McConkie
“He places a great trust in us when He assigns His children to our custody. We are honored by the stewardship we are given to create bodies for His spirit children.” – Douglas E. Brinley
“It was from Joseph that I learned that the wife of my bosom might be secured to me for time and all eternity; and that the refined sympathies and affections which endeared us to each other emanated from the fountain of divine eternal love” – Parley P. Pratt
“Marriage is a commitment to learn and work together if we are to succeed in this adventure.” – Douglas E Brinley
“Modern prophets have emphasized selfishness and pride as common reasons we take offense, delay repentance, or remain unforgiving—traits never part of Christ’s nature.” – Douglas E Brinley
“When individuals understand how the doctrines of the gospel apply to their family life and have a vision of eternity, they are able to establish a Zion society.” – Douglas E Brinley
“We believe that when a man and woman are united as husband and wife and they love each other, their hearts and feelings are one, that that love is as enduring as eternity itself, and that when death overtakes them it will neither extinguish nor cool that love, but that it will brighten and kindle it to a purer flame, and that it will endure through eternity.” – George Q Canon
